# DAP-Final-Project
This is a project repository which explains about the implementation of ETL (extract, transform and load) processes for performing data analysis using the popular python package like Luigi and a popular orchestration tool Dagster. The project includes three datasets of which two datasets are extracted using Web API of TMDb website, a recognized TV and movies database. These datasets which are derived using API key are in JSON format and can be classifies as semi-structured data.  The third set of datasets are derived from Kaggle website which represents a structured dataset as it is in CSV format. The semi-structured datasets are stored in NoSQL database like MongoDB and the structured datasets were stored in PostgreSQL with prior pre-processing of datasets. A total of three implementations are executed. In Case 1,  python package, Luigi was used to perform ETL and finally load the dataset in PostgreSQL database using localhost indicating the local storage, further utilizing this stored data for implementing Machine learning algorithm to build a linear regression model. In Case 2, Luigi was implemented to develop ETL process storing the dataset in popular cloud platform, AWS using their Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS) package and later retrieved the dataset for building linear regression model. In Case 3, the structured dataset stored in PostgreSQL with prior preprocessing, are extracted , transformed and loaded in Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS). This stored datasets from Case 2 and Case 3 are joined using inner join operation with PostgreSQL user interface. The resultant joined dataset was further used for developing linear regression model and get the necessary predictions. The results of the analysis of all the three cases are analyzed. The implementation of ETL process using Luigi and Dagster proved to be successful.
